doc/docportal/settings/misc.rst, before:

======================
Miscellaneous
======================

Use the Misc tab to change miscellaneous settings that don’t belong on any of the other tabs.

From the Launcher, select **Global Options**, if necessary click the **>** scroll arrow until the Misc tab is visible, and then select the **Misc** tab.

.. figure:: ../images/settings/misc.png

    The Misc tab in the Global Options menu

All settings can also be changed in the :doc:`../advanced_topics/configuration_file`. The configuration key is listed in italics after each setting description.

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _autosave:

Autosave
	Adjusts the time period between autosaves. The default setting is 5 minutes.

	*autosave_period*

.. _seed:

Random seed
	Every time you start ScummVM, a random seed is generated. Use this option to set a fixed seed, which ensures that random events in games play out the same way every time. 

	*random_seed*

.. _discord:
	
Enable Discord Integration

.. _updatecheck:

Update check
	Use this option to automatically check for updates to ScummVM. Click the Check now button to manually check for updates.

Commit message:

DOC: Add description for the Discord integration setting

doc/docportal/settings/misc.rst, after:

======================
Miscellaneous
======================

Use the Misc tab to change miscellaneous settings that don’t belong on any of the other tabs.

From the Launcher, select **Global Options**, if necessary click the **>** scroll arrow until the Misc tab is visible, and then select the **Misc** tab.

.. figure:: ../images/settings/misc.png

    The Misc tab in the Global Options menu

All settings can also be changed in the :doc:`../advanced_topics/configuration_file`. The configuration key is listed in italics after each setting description.

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _autosave:

Autosave
	Adjusts the time period between autosaves. The default setting is 5 minutes.

	*autosave_period*

.. _seed:

Random seed
	Every time you start ScummVM, a random seed is generated. Use this option to set a fixed seed, which ensures that random events in games play out the same way every time. 

	*random_seed*

.. _discord:

Enable Discord Integration
	Show the currently running game in a Discord user's status (if Activity Status is also enabled in the Discord settings).

	.. figure:: ../images/settings/discord_integration.png

.. _updatecheck:

Update check
	Use this option to automatically check for updates to ScummVM. Click the Check now button to manually check for updates.
