.TH PYCDLIB-EXPLORER 1 "Jan 2018" "pycdlib-explorer"

.SH NAME
pycdlib-explorer - tool to examine and modify ISOs using pycdlib

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pycdlib-explorer <iso-file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a tool to examine and modify existing ISO files on disk.  Using this
tool, the files, directories, and metadata on an ISO can be examined, new
files can be added, and old files can be deleted.  Note that due to the nature
of the ISO standard, files or directories on the ISO cannot be modified in
place in a general way.  To accomplish this, remove the file and then re-add
it with new contents.

The commands that change the contents of the ISO only modify the in-memory copy.
Changes are written out to a new ISO file when the \fBwrite\fR command is issued.

pycdlib-explorer has no command-line options; instead, it is controlled
entirely at runtime through commands.  The following section describes the
available commands in pycdlib-explorer.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B "add_file <iso_path> <src_filename> [rr_name=<rr_name>] [joliet_path=<joliet_path>]"
Add the contents of \fBsrc_filename\fR to the ISO at the location specified in \fBiso_path\fR.
If the ISO is a Rock Ridge ISO, \fBrr_name\fR must be specified; otherwise, it must not be.
If the ISO is not a Joliet ISO, \fBjoliet_path\fR must not be specified.  If the ISO is a
Joliet ISO, \fBjoliet_path\fR is optional, but highly recommended to supply.
.TP
.B "cd <iso_dir>"
Change the current working directory to relative or absolute ISO path \fBiso_dir\fR.
.TP
.B "cwd"
Show the current working directory.
.TP
.B "exit"
Exit out of pycdlib-explorer.
.TP
.B "get <iso_file> <out_file>"
Copy the contents of the relative or absolute ISO path \fBiso_file\fR into \fBout_file\fR.
.TP
.B "help"
Print the available commands.  Use "help <cmd>" for a more detailed
description of the commands, including the command-line arguments they
require.
.TP
.B "ls"
Show the contents of the current working directory. The format of the output is:
TYPE(F=file, D=directory) NAME.
.TP
.B "modify_file_in_place <iso_path> <src_filename>"
Replace the contents of the file referred to in \fBiso_path\fR with the contents
from \fBsrc_filename\fR.
Warning: This command modifies the opened ISO file in-place.
Also, the \fBsrc_filename\fR must occupy the same number of extents (2048-byte blocks) as the original file.
.TP
.B "mkdir <iso_path> [rr_name=<rr_name>] [joliet_path=<joliet_path>]"
Make a new directory called \fBiso_path\fR.
If the ISO is a Rock Ridge ISO, \fBrr_name\fR must be specified; otherwise, it must not be.
If the ISO is not a Joliet ISO, \fBjoliet_path\fR must not be specified.  If the ISO is a
Joliet ISO, \fBjoliet_path\fR is optional, but highly recommended to supply.
.TP
.B "print_mode [iso9660|rr|joliet|udf]"
Change which 'mode' of filenames are printed out.  There are four main
modes: ISO9660 (iso9660, the default), Rock Ridge (rr), Joliet (joliet), and
UDF (udf).  The original iso9660 mode only allows filenames of 8 characters,
plus 3 for the extension.  The Rock Ridge extensions allow much longer
filenames and much deeper directory structures.  The Joliet extensions also
allow longer filenames and deeper directory structures, but in an entirely
different context (though in most circumstances, the Joliet context will
mirror the ISO9660/Rock Ridge context).  The UDF Bridge extensions add an
entirely parallel UDF context to the ISO as well.  Any given ISO will always
have ISO9660 mode, but may have any combination of Rock Ridge, Joliet, and UDF
(including none of them).  Running this command with no arguments prints out
the current mode.  Passing 'iso9660' as an argument sets it to the original
ISO9660 mode.  Passing 'rr' as an argument sets it to Rock Ridge mode.
Passing 'joliet' as an argument sets it to Joliet mode.  Passing 'udf' as an
argument sets it to UDF mode.
.TP
.B "quit"
Exit out of pycdlib-explorer.
.TP
.B "rm_file <iso_path>"
Remove the file named \fBiso_path\fR from the ISO.  Note that this
must be a file; to remove a directory, use \fBrmdir\fR.
.TP
.B "rmdir <iso_path>"
Remove the directory named \fBiso_path\fR from the ISO.  Note that
this must be a directory; to remove a file, use \fBrm_file\fR.
.TP
.B "tree"
List the contents of the ISO in a tree-like format, similar to the
bash \fBtree\fR command.
.TP
.B "write <out_file>"
Write a valid ISO9660 file out to \fBout_file\fR, taking into
account any changes made while running the program.  This is
also sometimes referred to as "mastering" the ISO.  Note that
the \fBout_file\fR must NOT be the same file as the input
file, or the resulting ISO will not work properly.

.SH SEE ALSO
pycdlib-extract-files(1), pycdlib-genisoimage(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Lalancette <clalancette@gmail.com>
