.TH PYCDLIB-EXTRACT-FILES 1 "Sep 2018" "pycdlib-extract-files"

.SH NAME
pycdlib-extract-files - tool to extract files from an ISO using pycdlib

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pycdlib-extract-files [OPTIONS] <iso-file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a tool to extract files from an existing ISO file.  Using this tool,
the files and directories on an ISO can be extracted to the local filesystem.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-path\-type " [auto,iso9660,rockridge,joliet,udf]"
Specifies the path name convention to use while extracting the files.  If the
ISO to be extracted doesn't contain the path type specified, an error is thrown.
If not specified, defaults to auto, which first tries to extract files via the
UDF path, then the Rock Ridge path, then the Joliet path, and finally falls back
to the ISO9660 path if all else fails.  Once one path type succeeds, all files
will be extracted as that path type.
.TP
.BI \-start\-path " <pathname>"
The ISO path to start extracting from, specified in a Unix like path (something
like "/foo/bar").  If not specified, extraction starts from the root of the ISO
(equivalent to specifying "/").  The starting path must be a directory on the
ISO.  If \-path\-type is not specified, the path is an ISO9660 style path.
If \-path\-type is specified, the start path specified here must be of that
particular type.
.TP
.BI \-extract\-to " <destpath>"
The local directory to extract the data to.  The "destpath" must exist and
must be a directory, or an error will be thrown.  If not specified,
pycdlib\-extract\-files will extract the files to the current directory.

.SH SEE ALSO
pycdlib-explorer(1), pycdlib-genisoimage(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Lalancette <clalancette@gmail.com>
